# Cahier des charges

This "Cahier des charges" will define everything that must and must not be done in the in order to reach the V1 & V2 goal of this project.

## General

Main guidelines:

- Godot Engine will be used
- Logic should be completely separated from visuals
- Chat should not write any code, with the exception of minimal refactorings

### V1

The V1 should be the absolute minimal Proof of Concept. It will have no real game loop and essentially just be a sandbox, like minecraft creative mode, where i can just play around, moving and fighting legions.

What V1 should contain:

- Map (procedually generated)
- Units (with animations IDLE, MOVE, ATTACK)
- Unit types (some JSON with all the unit stats)
- Legions (correctly handling idle, move and attack positioning of the units)
- Combat (simple melee-only combat)
- Simple UI to select and move/combat legions

What V1 should NOT contain:

- Menu
- Polish
- Game loop
- Realms (Teams)
- AI

### V2

The V2 should build upon the V1 and be a playable and fun MVP Game.

The V2 game will either be:

- Roguelike (similar to SOVL)
- Draftlike (with a gold/point cost for each unit)
- NOT a combination of those, cause remember, it should be SIMPLE!

The V2 will add following things:

- Simple menu
- Game loop and game ends
- Polish
- Unit anims HIT & DEATH
- Realms (different teams basically)
- Turn system
- Simple AI

The V2 will not implement any of the features stated in V3!

### V3

The V3 (only hypothetical for now) will be a place to experiment with new features.

Feature ideas:

- Ranged combat
- Banners?

## Logic

### Core elements

- Hex map (more in MAP.md)
- Units (more in UNITS.md)
- Legions (more in LEGIONS.md)
- Combat (more in COMBAT.md)

### Testing

TODO: need to flesh this out
How to do testing? only test the logic?

## Visuals

### Assets

- Hex tiles (Generated by AI)
- Units (TinyCreatures spritesheet)
- UI (?)

### Effects / Additional assets

- Banner / Color for distinguishing realms (?)
- Projectiles if having ranged attacks (?)

### Animations

All animations should be made by "procedually" by transforming the sprite position, orientation and proportions.

- Idle (squish and squash)
- Move (hopping?)
- Attack (stomp forward?)
- Hit (full white shader) (V2!)
- Death (?) (V2!)

## UI

- Selectable legions (colorful border (white) shader?)
- Info panel about units/legions/(tiles) (?)
- Simple menu (?)
- Tile/legions highlights, for moving, targeting.. (?)
- Damage & Death counter after combat

## Sound

- Music (Generated by AI)
- Sounds (Generated by AI)
